---
layout: archive
permalink: /projects/
title: "My Projects"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
- 
---

{% include base_path %}


Below is a brief about my recent projects.

## Pose Estimation, Categorization and Segregation using Robot Manipulator (POSCAR) \[[GitHub](https://github.com/thathvik/POSCAR)\]
Nov 2020 - Dec 2020
* Used NVIDIA DOPE to identify the object and estimate its 6D Pose with the image input from a 2D RGB camera.
* Simulated a Robotic arm with a camera near the end-effector to identify the pose of the objects and then move the robotic arm to the pose estimated by DOPE to then manipulate the said objects in the scene.

## Quadcopter
Jun 2020 – Jul 2020

* Built a Quadcopter powered by an ArduCopter microcontroller and operated by an 8 channel PWM Remote Control.
* Installed a GPS to exploit Return-To-Launch (RTL).

## Industrial Goods Loading System \[[GitHub](https://github.com/thathvik/Wearhouse_dist_RB_Arm_PART/)\]
Apr 2020 – May 2020

* Implemented a cargo handling system where a 2DOF robotic Arm, operated by a Raspberry Pi, picks up cargo from the conveyor and places it onto a cart, operated by Arduino.
* Using OpenCV, identified the location of the cart at the loading area for the robotic arm to place the cargo.
* Established Bluetooth Communication between the Raspberry Pi and the Arduino using HC-06, to convey the arrival of the cart and successful placement of the cargo on the cart.

## Optimal and Learning Control Assignment Projects \[[GitHub](https://github.com/thathvik/optlearningcontrol)\]
Jan 2020 – May 2020

Implemented a Series of Assignment Projects. Several concepts used in implementing these assignment projects include:
* Dynamic Programming
* Lable Correction Path Planning Algorithms (Breadth-First Search, Depth First Search, A-Star)
* Linear–Quadratic Regulator (with and without desired trajectory and constraints)
* Model Predictive Control
* Reinforcement Learning
Check out [my project's Github page](https://github.com/thathvik/optlearningcontrol) for more details about my Assignment Projects.

## Walking a 1D-Linear Inverted Pendulum Model (LIPM) \[[GitHub](https://github.com/thathvik/2D-LIPM_Variable_Gait_MPC)\]
May 2020 - May 2020

* Implemented ‘Model Predictive Controller’ to enable a 1D-LIPM to the desired steps by tracing the motion plan generated by a 'Linear Quadratic Regulator.'
* Compiled a code to generate the desired steps of variable velocity for the Motion Planner.
* Implemented ‘Push recovery’ by identifying Instantaneous Capture Point at each time step to perform necessary stepping in order to maintain balance. The model reacts similarly to how a human would.

## SONAR for Visually Challenged
Apr 2020 - Apr 2020

* Built a wearable device for the visually challenged to help perceive distance.
* The device gently vibrates to enable the user to sense the closeness of an object/obstacle (past a given threshold).
* Used the parallel processing capabilities of a Parallax Propeller to constantly monitor the distance using a PING ultrasonic sensor and enable the corresponding vibration using an oscillator.

## Snake-Mic \[[GitHub](https://github.com/thathvik/SnakeMic)\]
Feb 2020 – Mar 2020

* Implemented a mobile robot, designed to look like a Mic for Artistic Performance as required by Dramatist and Director of Chilean theater, Professor Alejandro Moreno Jashes. It was operated by an Arduino Nano.
* Made an Android App to control the robot using Bluetooth Communication (HC-06 connected to Arduino Nano to enable Bluetooth Communication).
* The Snake-Mic can be controlled to move around the room by an artist using an Android Phone, while the Mic plays good quality music through its Bluetooth Enabled 3" Speaker Driver.


## Model to avoid deaths in cars due to hypothermia and suffocation in cars
Nov 2019 – Dec 2019

* Developed a solution to avoid deaths in cars due to hyperthermia and suffocation of kids, disabled, or pets in left in cars for too long by accident.
* Simulated a hot car environment using a box.
* Used an Arduino to monitor the temperature, and the CO2 (and CO) levels using a Digital Temperature Sensor and an Analog CO2 Sensor.
* Used PIR sensor to detect any movement in the car indicating life.
* Established Bluetooth Connectivity between the Arduino and the user using an HC-05 module. Once the threshold is crossed the Arduino Communicates the predicted danger to the user and based on the feedback, lowers the windows of the car (to avoid suffocation) and/or turns on the Air Conditioning System of the car (to avoid hypothermia) based on the sensor outputs.


## Implement a Kinematic Model of a SCARA Manipulator on MATLAB
Oct 2019 – Nov 2019

* Simulated the differential kinematics model of a SCARA manipulator using MATLAB and SIMULINK.
* Implemented the desired trajectory with minimum error and controlled using the Inverse Dynamics control.

## Control an Inverted pendulum in ROS \[[GitHub](https://github.com/thathvik/Inverted_Pendulum)\]
Nov 2018 - Nov 2018

* Controlled the simulation of an Inverted Pendulum Model on Gazebo.
* Used and tuned a PID controller complied on Python as a ROS Node to balance the Inverted Pendulum.



More about me:
------
* This is a new website, still under development, please find my resume [here](/files/Tarun_Thathvik_Paladugu_resume.pdf).

* Please check out [my GitHub](https://github.com/thathvik) page to see more of my work and uploaded projects.
